---
title: Risk tab
description: Making a place for all risk information
date: 2021-07-08
related:
  items:
  - text: Prototype PR
    href: https://github.com/ministryofjustice/hmpps-manage-supervisions-prototype/pull/278
  - text: Trello
    href: https://trello.com/c/qchhZi0H/622-update-rosh-table-designs-to-with-yes-no-questions
  - text: Example ARN API response
    href: https://github.com/ministryofjustice/hmpps-manage-supervisions/blob/7ec1aefc3d5bb78356069e47f202f2df4554db14/fake-api/db.json#L3790-L3872
---

Risk information was shown on the overview, and we had a tab specifically for [risk flags](/risk-flags/). There was no dedicated place for all risk information.

This design:

- repurposes the [risk flags tab](/risk-flags/) as a tab for all risk information
- moves historic risk flags onto its own page
- brings in a section for risk of serious harm in the community
- brings in a section for risk of serious harm to themselves
- links the ROSH tag in the header to the risk page (this was [outstanding from the flag work](/risk-flags/#risk-of-harm))

## Risk of serious harm (ROSH)

We’ve moved away from [the original table](#old-rosh-table-on-overview). The full table with columns for Community and In custody did not test well – practitioners questioned the usefulness of the In custody column when the service user was in the community. That column has since been removed.

When practitioners saw a risk to a known-adult, they asked, ‘who is the known adult’. When there is a risk to children – which children. The table by itself does not give enough context about the risk, and practitioners would look around the service for extra detail.

OASys captures a summary of risk in section 10 and asks:

- Who is at risk? (10.1)
- What is the nature of the risk? (10.2)
- When is the risk likely to be greatest? (10.3)
- What circumstances are likely to increase risk? (10.4)
- What factors are likely to reduce risk? (10.5)

Fields 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3 can give us the risk context we’re missing and are already available in the Assess Risks and Needs (ARN) API.

In our updated ROSH design we show:

- An overall risk rating, which is derived from the highest risk for each of the groups (Public, Staff, Known adult, Children)
- A list of groups that are very high risk, high, medium or low – any sections that are empty are not shown
- Rows for ‘Who is at risk’, ‘Nature of risk’, ‘When is risk greatest’
- A link to OASys to view the full risk assessment (hopefully a deep link)

## Incorporating Risk of harm to themselves

We previously showed Risk to themselves as a row in [the ROSH table](#old-rosh-table-on-overview) with a low/medium/high or very high tag.

The Risk to themselves data isn’t captured in the same way as other risk groups. Instead it is broken down across 5 categories:

- Suicide
- Self-harm
- Coping in custody
- Coping in a hostel setting
- Vulnerability (for example being bullied, exploited, assaulted or victimised)

For each of these categories OASys asks if there are current concerns and previous concerns with a Yes/No answer.

Practitioners can also add notes about these categories, for current and previous concerns, but apparently only in pairs:

- Suicide is paired with self harm
- Coping in custody is paired with coping in a hostel setting
- Vulnerability is not paired

The Assess Risks and Needs (ARN) API appears to represent notes for each category separately – it's not clear yet whether this is a source for unique notes per category, or if the API is misrepresenting the data – perhaps as future-proofed design for when notes can be captured per category.

### Risk descriptions

We use logic and content to:

- combine current and previous concerns
- combine the risk categories in alignment with the data
- any current concerns trump previous concerns

[See prototype logic](https://github.com/ministryofjustice/hmpps-manage-supervisions-prototype/blob/22d3891b854a2967e66c27aabd400c3a54cec7f3/app/views/case/risk/_risk-to-themselves.html)

When current or previous notes are available for a risk-pair, the description becomes a Details component that can be expanded to show the notes. The notes section always contains headings for current and previous circumstances.

#### List of suicide and self-harm descriptions

- There are concerns about suicide and self-harm
- There are concerns about suicide
- There are concerns about self-harm
- There are concerns about suicide and previous concerns about self-harm
- There are concerns about self-harm and previous concerns about suicide
- There were concerns about self-harm and suicide
- There were concerns about suicide
- There were concerns about self-harm
- No concerns

#### List of coping in custody and coping in a hostel setting descriptions

- There are concerns about coping in custody and in a hostel
- There are concerns about coping in custody
- There are concerns about coping in a hostel
- There are concerns about coping in custody and previous concerns about coping in a hostel
- There are concerns about coping in a hostel and previous concerns about coping in custody
- There were concerns about coping in custody or in a hostel
- There were concerns about coping in custody
- There were concerns about coping in a hostel
- No concerns

#### List of vulnerability descriptions

- There are concerns about a vulnerability
- There were concerns about a vulnerability
- No concerns

{% from "screenshots/macro.njk" import appScreenshots with context %}
{{ appScreenshots({
  items: [{
      text: "Risk tab",
      img: { src: "01-risk-tab.png" }
    }, {
      text: "Risk to themselves: Expanded",
      img: { src: "02-risk-to-themselves-expanded.png" }
    }, {
      text: "Risk to themselves: Expanded but with partial notes",
      img: { src: "02-risk-to-themselves-expanded-partial-notes.png" }
    }, {
      text: "Risk to themselves: No notes, nothing to expand",
      img: { src: "02-risk-to-themselves-no-notes.png" }
    }, {
      text: "Another example of risk tab",
      img: { src: "03-another-example-of-risk-tab.png" }
    }, {
      text: "Removed risk flags",
      img: { src: "04-removed-risk-flags.png" }
    }, {
      text: "Early designs: First iteration",
      img: { src: "10-first-iteration.png" },
      caption: "Too much colour. With so much colour, colour from risk flags in the header, the tags in the risk table, and the tags in the risk flags table – the meaning of the colours was starting to be lost."
    }, {
      text: "Early designs: Second iteration",
      img: { src: "12-second-iteration.png" },
      caption: "Scaling back the colour and using content to do the heavy lifting instead."
    }, {
      text: "Early designs: Third iteration",
      img: { src: "13-third-iteration.png" },
      caption: "Pivoting to use the summary card pattern, for consistency with the personal details tab, and to create clearer sections."
    }, {
      text: "Old ROSH table on overview",
      img: { src: "old-risk-table-on-overview.png" }
    }]
}) }}
