---
title: Designs as of December 2021
description: How we left the Manage supervisions service
date: 2021-11-24
related:
  items:
  - text: Handover presentation
    href: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1r1_5JGNk7Zco06njiOJ7yXudBrWrjEk2O5xP5qOr6io/
---
{% from "embed/macro.njk" import appEmbed with context %}

In December 2021 the Manage supervisions team and pilot were paused. We stopped all design, research and development on the service until a new team could return to pick up from where we left off.

Findings from user research were overwhelmingly positive, and the project was not paused because of the quality of the service we built.

> __“I adore this”__
> – Pilot participant

## Video walkthroughs

### Read-only parts of the service

{{ appEmbed({
  youtubeId: 'LUnSB8hIKOU'
}) }}

### Booking an appointment

{{ appEmbed({
  youtubeId: '4xsk5mjZU-0'
}) }}

### Recording and changing an outcome

{{ appEmbed({
  youtubeId: 'OfeHSyBQ1iA'
}) }}

### Adding a communication

{{ appEmbed({
  youtubeId: 'cYdoLT7Q3ck'
}) }}

## Where we leave the service

We built a service for probation professionals to record a service user’s progress and arrange appointments. We focused on medium risk service users with sentences that have a single RAR requirement.

These are the simplest types of cases, but the interactions and transactions are common to all probation cases. This focus would have allowed us to launch with the lowest risk, while learning what we needed to increase scope.

The service focused on practitioners being able to manage individual cases. They could:

- see overviews of a person’s details, sentence, compliance, risk and activity
- arrange appointments in the future, and record outcomes for appointments in the past

We were planning to increase the scope in:

- all other community orders
- multiple concurrent orders
- people released on licence

We built static pages in pre-production for testing with real cases. Participants viewed the pages populated with data from their current cases in Delius.

We then tested in Production with ‘live’ data with two participants in the pilot.
