---
title: A new RAR process in Delius
description: Practitioners will need to use an NSI to record RAR
date: 2021-10-06
related:
  items:
  - text: Trello
    href: https://trello.com/c/1pzR5ENB/770-redesign-the-arrange-an-appointment-journey-to-account-for-changes-to-rar
  - text: Prototype PR
    href: https://github.com/ministryofjustice/hmpps-manage-supervisions-prototype/pull/360
---

A new process for recording RAR is being rolled out in Delius. It's being phased in across different regions and teams. We need to update our designs to match.

The old RAR categories will no longer apply. Replacing them are a set of new toolkits. Old data, using the previous categories, will remain unchanged.

## New process

Practitioners will record a one to one RAR appointment in Delius. They need to:

- create an NSI (non-statutory intervention), the name of the intervention will be the toolkit (for example Developing Dialogues Toolkit)
- the NSI will be linked to the RAR requirement of the sentence

For areas that do not have the new toolkits yet, there is a catch-all generic toolkit they can use called ‘Non-Approved Transition Toolkit (NAT1)’

For each appointment, the practitioner will:

- create a contact as they did before (for example ‘Planned office visit’)
- link that contact to the new NSI

We expect that the same NSI will be reused for each contact.

We are still unclear about some details of the toolkit NSI. We don't know what the following are for:

- Referral date (required field)
- Session count
- Status and status time and date (required field)

## Scope

RAR days act a bit like a budget. Many RAR sessions will be one to one activities using the new toolkits. But sometimes a practitioner will recognise that an accredited programme might be beneficial – they can then use up RAR days on that programme.

The appointment booking process for that type of RAR is currently out of scope. We're only looking at RAR in the context of one to one sessions.

## Design changes

We’ve kept UI changes minimal:

- ‘Will this appointment count towards RAR?’ is now ‘Will this be a RAR toolkit session’
- ‘What will this appointment count towards?’ is now ‘Which RAR toolkit will you use?’
- The toolkits are currently listed alphabetically

In the future we may want to:

- order by most popular
- put the previously used toolkits first

For now we are keeping it simple.

## Technical details

There’s a 2-step process in Delius that we are achieving with a single user journey.

If an NSI for the chosen toolkit does not exist, we need to create one. If one does exist we need to be able to find it. We then need to know the right NSI to link to the contact we are creating.

We should also explore the possibility that there could be duplicate NSIs and how we handle that scenario (if duplicates are possible).

If the team using our service has not transitioned to toolkits yet, they can skip the "which toolkit" page and we can default to the placeholder `Non-Approved Transition Toolkit (NAT1)`.

## Help with toolkits

These toolkits are new, and there's guidance on them in Equip. We are exploring putting guidance about each toolkit into the service – using structured and consistent content to compare toolkits.

We expect to create a new ‘Guidance’ section to help users find guidance about:

- toolkits
- risk flags

We may also add contextual guidance or links to this guidance from wherever toolkits are referenced.

{% from "screenshots/macro.njk" import appScreenshots with context %}
{{ appScreenshots({
  items: [{
      text: "Will this be a RAR toolkit session?",
      img: { src: "01-will-this-be-a-rar-toolkit-session.png" }
    }, {
      text: "Which toolkit will you use?",
      img: { src: "02-which-toolkit-will-you-use.png" }
    }, {
      text: "Check your answers",
      img: { src: "03-check-your-answers.png" }
    }]
}) }}
